2021-12-28
Brian, plz use account 3BR3U9L-PBD
Thanks, Bob
On Tue, Dec 28, 2021 at 9:46 AM Brian Kahn - NOAA Affiliate <brian.kahn@noaa.gov> wrote:
renee, i have an urgent order which bob has approved previously, but he is away now. Can you help me select an account?
The urgent part is $3360 (under $3500) if it is ordered this week. This is a set of 12 disks for our file server Acoustic.
An order this week would not be GSA.
3x - https://www.bhphotovideo.com/c/product/1509237-REG/wd_12tb_ultrastar_7200_rpm.html
On Tue, Dec 28, 2021 at 8:13 AM Brian Kahn - NOAA Affiliate <brian.kahn@noaa.gov> wrote:
Bob, i would like to put in an order today. What account should i use?
On Tue, Dec 14, 2021 at 5:50 PM Bob Dziak <robert.p.dziak@noaa.gov> wrote:
Hi Brian, thanks for the reminder on this. Im doubtful we’ll see the infrastructure funds unfortunately, but I suppose ya never know. But if it’s still at $5k or so, we can move forward on this purchase. I have a couple of accounts that could mange this amount.
Bob

2021-8-11
. purchase of external drives
v8lpb01-pac

2021-4-15
. /e/ eugene
With the rapid changes on the purchase card requirements, I’d like to clarify the changes on IT purchase procedures for items to be purchased on a purchase card at or below the micro-purchase limit ($3,500). These are NOAA-wide requirements by the Acquisition and Grants Office (AGO) to bring us into compliance with Federal law. The NOAA AGO requirements also apply to non-IT purchases, which are not specifically addressed in this message.

If you need to purchase an IT item on a purchase card at or less than $3,500:
Determine where the IT item will be purchased from. It should be purchased from one of these 5 sources: UNICOR, AbilityOne, GSA Advantage, CSP Enterprises (DOC IT Purchase portal), Enterprise Services Strategic Sourcing Initiatives.
If it is not from one of the vendors through the sources above, Ben Carlson has to do the purchase. Please cc Ben Carlson on the following emails.
Get purchase approval of the IT item from the System Owner (Eugene Burger) by email.
Please cc the card holder you intend to use for the purchase.
State which vendor the item will be purchased from. It should be from one of the sources listed above.

A completed and signed off-portal waiver is required if:
It is an Apple device
An item category (laptop, display, mouse etc.) that is available on the DOC IT purchase portal is being purchased at another vendor.
Following the approval from Eugene Burger
If the device is one of these items, CNSD will guide the purchase of the device. Please submit a Footprints ticket with an IT item specifications screen capture or link to the shopping cart.

These IT items have to be purchased through CNSD:
All computers, to include
Laptops, Desktops, Rack mounted servers, Network equipment,
Any equipment that will be connected to any NOAA network.

For other IT-related items, any purchase card holder can purchase the item if it is through one of these sources: UNICOR, AbilityOne, GSA Advantage, CSP Enterprises (DOC IT Purchase portal), Enterprise Services Strategic Sourcing Initiatives.
See item 1 (a)
This is something we have to implement, and we know this is not fun. This requirement will most likely change in the next few weeks. Here are actions we’re taking to smooth this process:
An IT purchase request system that allows you to track approvals and signatures.
A list of waived IT components items for which IT purchase approval is not required.
A new IT information site accessible without VPN access.


