:Title: Storage RAID Policy, PMEL Newport

:Summary: The selection of RAID tech and balance of risk vs cost.

:Overview: RAID is a set of disk storage configurations and tech which
offer various combinations of risk, performance, and cost. There are
similar choices made in the selection of components. Our current policy
leans heavily to the lowest cost with moderate risk, but some moderate
cost reduced risk choices may be preferred by individual project managers.

:Options: Here we review the cost/risk trade-off. The intrepid reader
may want to first read the :Analysis: section below to see why these
issues present.

Our current policy is to build RAID with suitable redundancy, using the
lower cost "desktop" grade of disks in large arrays up to 50TB with 
sixteen 4TB disks. With the larger 4TB disks we will use RAID 6 method
of redundancy instead of RAID 5, which is a common practice. RAID 6
has notably slower write speeds (30%) but this is not a problem for our
needs usage of network attached storage.

Option - Use "enterprise" class disks, as advised by all manufacturers.

Advantage - disks that last longer in datacenter type of use, and carry a
longer replacement warranty (5 yrs vs 3 yrs). The disk failure modes are
also different with much lower incidence of read errors, so manufacturers
claim a lower risk of complete RAID failure.

Cost - 50% more per disk, adding 33% to cost of a new 50TB server.
As of Nov 2014, desktop class 4TB is $169, enterprise class 4TB is $269,
costing $7000 to fill up a 50TB server instead of $5200.

Discussion - This option has some certain payback due to an extra
two years warranty and probably gives us longer disk life in kind. If
disks are replaced as soon as warranty expires, this option pays for
itself. However, many of our disks are past warranty (older than 3 years)
and we continue to use them. Statistics show that current desktop class
disks live well beyond warranty, and are thus a better value. 

However, the manufacturer spec sheets for the enterprise disks claim
both longer life and higher reliability in operation. If they deliver
then there is less maintenance cost *and* lower risk of array failure.

Using this option is not all-or-nothing exclusive in that we can mix the
two classes of disk, even within one array, and get the partial benefits.
See details on disk specs and how RAID works below.

:Analysis: This section describes RAID tech and our options for build out. 

RAID technology uses standard disks to build arrays which look like one 
huge disk. RAID supports levels of redundancy which allows rebuilding
the array when a component disk fails, instead of restoring from backup.

Policy - New arrays will be built with 4TB disks using RAID-6.

Details - PMEL Newport circa 2014 uses mostly 1TB and 2TB disks with
RAID-5 making arrays above 18TB. We have one array using 4TB disks,
which is working well. Plans for use of 4TB drives with RAID-6 will
build arrays up to 50TB, and the backup plans must be updated to match.

RAID uses some disk space for redundancy to allow the array to survive
and rebuild without shutting down. RAID-5 has a cost of one drive and
can survive the failure of one drive, and RAID-6 does the same for
two drives. In an array of eight 1TB disks, RAID-5 gives 7TB of usable
space and RAID-6 gives 6TB.  Newport will move to RAID-6 because with
larger disks and arrays we have too high a risk of failure during an
array rebuild.

RAID-6 can tolerate the failure of two disks at once, RAID-5 only one.
It may seem unlikely to have two disk failures at once, but there is
a narrower definition of failure during a RAID rebuild. We see this in
failure modes.

During a disk lifetime, disks will encounter errors. A single disk
(even alone in a desktop) can correct an error during a sector write,
which causes the disk to mark off the bad sector and relocate a good
sector into that spot, then the data is rewritten. In a RAID array the
same can happen on a read error, because the data can be recovered from
elsewhere in the array. So, during normal operation a disk is not failed
out of an array for a single sector error. A disk is dead when there
are too many sector errs, it is talking trash, or it is not responding.

However, any single read error is a failed disk during a RAID rebuild.
When a disk is replaced we must rebuild the array, and the data for
the new disk is derived from redundant data spread across the whole
array. Read errors which are handled during normal operation now cause
loss of data and array failure. This is the most likely risk of a second
failure under RAID-5.

Bad sectors may be lurking in the array undetected until read, or the
high volume of data read may trigger a mechanical fail.

Policy - Array verification will be scheduled for weekends and will
occur at least monthly.

Details - Verification reads all the disk sectors in the array and
corrects remaps bad sectors.  However, this is 24-48 hours of continuous
disk activity which contributes to mechanical wear. The schedule may be
changed based on results, but should be between weekly and monthly.

Policy - PMEL Newport recommends building storage with the lower cost
consumer class of disks, but we will use enterprise class at request
of the project manager. The higher quality disks are appropriate as a
cost/risk trade-off. 

Details - Enterprise class disks are designed for use in RAID arrays
and are recommended by all manufacturers. Experience here and in other
data centers indicates the consumer class disks are a better deal in 2014
considering performance and reliability.  Enterprise disks cost 40% - 80%
more and carry a 5 year warranty instead of 3 yr. See the Raid Strategy
document for more details.

:Related Docs: 
Newport Storage Backup Policy, newport-policy-backup
Newport RAID Strategy, newport-strategy-raid

:Revisions: 
Brian Kahn, Draft 0; Tue, Nov 04, 2014  9:52:02 AM

