Wed, Jan 07, 2015 10:08:41 AM


---
System Operations: Assist in Desktop and Laptop system generation, tuning,
security, and configuration within the NOAA/DOC policy framework. Assist
in the installation and troubleshooting of Printers, Scanners, and various
other hardware items. Assist in the development of tools and procedures
for daily operational support.

systems:
 : parts selection - bioac3 acoustic embfile2 baleen(PC)
 : parts ordered - bioac3 acoustic baleen(PC) [embfile2 scheduled]
 : server build / deploy - bioac3 [acoustic scheduled]
 : PC build / deploy - baleen

server restore:
 : syspc - system disk crash
 : station1 - system disk crash

lifecycle:
 : excess = orca shepard bioacoustic, 2x dell servers
 : server decomission = bioacoustic [leopard scheduled]

rack: 
 : servers bioac2, bioac3, ventstore moved into racks
 : all racks in server room are now locking

power: 
 : installed two rackmount UPS units obtained from PMEL excess pool
 : all rack UPS now monitored by local servers
 : balanced load on rack UPS units
 : switch infra moved onto larger UPS, powered longer than servers
 : metro WAN link onto dedicated UPS, moved to robust power circuit
 : failing rack UPS removed, some batteries re-used in existing unit
 : re-calibration of all rack UPS batteries (some found low on power)

infrastructure:
 : power improvements on network switches and metro WAN
 : obtained disks from local excess for RAID upgrade on ventstore, oerdftp
 : extended gigabit LAN to all servers, LAN cable labeling and survey

plotter:
 : research on costs, performance


---
System Management: Configure and maintain systems to operate with security
controls as specified in the federal government IT Security Plan. Monitor
and report on specific controls as requested. Monitor system performance
for OSU and NOAA Desktop and Laptop computers. Maintain the integrity and
security of the NOAA desktop network environment, and ensures continuity
with the current processing applications. Perform backup and disaster
recovery operations for OSU and NOAA computers. Maintain documentation
of existing systems and procedures in the central PMEL Footprint support
knowledge base.

updates:
 : regular updates and patches
 : new OS install on pioneer, syspc, station3, smoker(XP)
 : install of BES (IBM Bigfix) on all systems
 : install of centrify for activcard on linux workstations
 : update several mobile systems to full disk encryption

storage for projects: 
 : 3 - 5 year project data storage plans approved, invested
 : project backup plans approved, invested
 : refresh on project raid disks beyond warranty
 : conversion from raid5 to raid6, needed for large volumes
 : long term storage of scientific data, 30TB [26TB more scheduled]
 : expansion of project storage, 50TB [30TB more scheduled]

---
User Support: Provide first-level desktop support to research scientists
and staff. Train employees on basic use of OSU and NOAA standard hardware
and software. Assist in the installation and troubleshooting of various
enterprise software packages such as Microsoft Office, ESRI ArcGIS,
Exelis IDL, and McAfee VirusScan. Participate in research projects in
a desktop/network/server management capacity

support:
 : one to four visits per day from staff with questions
 : light programming with andy lau for automated downloads, unix utilities
 : deeper support on applications and data management with 
   embley, merle, chadwick, haxel, holger

