https://money.usnews.com/money/personal-finance/retirement/articles/2015/03/06/how-to-maximize-social-security-with-spousal-benefits
. The Basics
Spousal benefits allow a husband or wife to receive up to 50 percent of a spouse’s Social Security benefits. These benefits are available even if one spouse has never worked. 

For married couples, the following criteria must be met:
The individual claiming spousal benefits must be age 62 or older.
His or her spouse must be eligible to receive Social Security retirement benefits.
His or her spouse must have already filed to receive those benefits.

While a spouse can begin claiming benefits at age 62, Neil Krishnaswamy, a certified financial planner with Exencial Wealth Advisors in Plano, Texas, cautions the monthly amount can be significantly lower than what that person would receive if he or she waited a few more years.

“There is a lot more flexibility by waiting until their full retirement age,” Krishnaswamy says. (The full retirement age ranges from  65 to 67 depending on the year you were born.)

For instance, a woman who has reached her full retirement age can file a restricted application to claim spousal benefits. This application lets her receive spousal benefits while allowing her own Social Security benefits to grow until the monthly amount maxes out at age 70. Then, she can switch to her own benefits at that point. Krishnaswamy notes this option is not available to those who choose to receive spousal benefits before their full retirement age.

. Suspend and File to Maximize Benefits
With this method, a spouse can receive spousal benefits while the other spouse takes advantage of a provision that allows his or her monthly Social Security benefit to grow.

For example, a husband can file a claim for Social Security and immediately suspend his payments, which opens the door for his wife to claim spousal benefits. By suspending his payments, the husband’s monthly benefit will continue to receive an annual increase until he ends the suspension or reaches age 70.

“From age 66 to 70, you get what essentially amounts to an 8 percent increase [in your monthly amount] each year you delay benefits,” Thornton says.

That means an individual may want to wait until age 70 to begin drawing Social Security retirement benefits to receive the largest monthly amount possible. However, for a married couple, spousal benefits are only available once a Social Security claim has been filed.

You can only file and suspend your benefits when you reach your full retirement age. Once you have filed and suspended, your spouse can claim spousal benefits at any time once he or she reach age 62.

.Special Considerations for the Divorced or Widowed

Russ Thornton, a wealth manager with Wealthcare Capital Management in Atlanta, specializes in financial planning for divorces, widows and women. He points out that divorced women shouldn’t overlook their ability to claim spousal benefits.

“If you’re divorced and were married at least 10 years, you’re eligible to receive half of your spouse’s benefits,” Thornton says. “[Your claim] does not impact his or her benefits.”

Unlike married couples, divorcees don’t have to wait for former spouses to file for Social Security benefits. As long as they were married 10 years and have been divorced at least two years, they can file for spousal benefits at age 62, regardless of their spouse’s filing status. However, their former spouse must also be at least age 62. As with married couples, filing for spousal benefits before full retirement age can result in a reduced monthly amount.


https://www.aarp.org/retirement/social-security/questions-answers/spouse-social-security/
You qualify for spousal benefits if:
    Your spouse is already collecting retirement benefits.
    You have been married for at least a year.

https://www.ssa.gov/planners/retire/divspouse.html
If you are divorced, but your marriage lasted 10 years or longer, you can receive benefits on your ex-spouse's record (even if they have remarried) if:

    You are unmarried;
    You are age 62 or older;
    Your ex-spouse is entitled to Social Security retirement or disability benefits; and
    The benefit you are entitled to receive based on your own work is less than the benefit you would receive based on your ex-spouse's work.

